README.md, before:

# OptiMilk Microservices Solution

This solution consists of two .NET 9 microservices designed for modern cattle management and milking yield analytics. 
Each service is container-ready and leverages resilient, scalable patterns for cloud deployment.
Each microservice has its own database context and exposes its API using Scalar for efficient, strongly-typed queries and commands.

## Get Started
To run the microservices locally, ensure you have Docker installed and execute the provided Docker Compose file. Each service will be accessible via its designated ports.

1. **Clone the repository.**
- ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/skeytor/OptiMilk
  ```
2. **Run Docker Compose:**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```
3. **Access the APIs:**
   - Cattle Management API: `http://localhost:8080/scalar/v1`
   - Milking Yield API: `http://localhost:5000/scalar/v1`
   - Load Balancer for Milking Yield API: `http://localhost/api/MilkingYield`

For further details, refer to each microservice's documentation and source code.

## API Exposure

Both microservices expose their APIs using Scalar, enabling efficient, strongly-typed queries and commands. This approach supports modern CQRS patterns and high-performance data access.

[Cattle Management API Docs](http://localhost:8080/scalar/v1#tag/cattle/get/api/Cattle)

[Milking Yield API Docs](http://localhost:5000/scalar/v1#tag/milkingyield/get/api/MilkingYield)

Furthemore we can access to the Milking Yield API through Load Balancer at: [Load Balancer URL](http://localhost/api/MilkingYield)


## Kafka Integration

OptiMilk uses Kafka for lightweight eventing and eventual consistency between services.

Core points
- Topic topology:
  - `CattleEvents` � cattle lifecycle events (created, updated, deleted).
  - `MilkingEvents` � (reserved) events related to milking sessions (name available in config).
- Service responsibilities:
  - `CattleManagement.API` publishes cattle lifecycle events using the Kafka producer integration (`AddKafkaProducer`).
  - `MilkingYield.API` subscribes to cattle events using the Kafka consumer integration (`AddKafkaConsumer`) and reacts (e.g., to synchronize caches or trigger downstream processing).
- Configuration:
  - The integration expects a `Kafka` configuration section with the following properties:
    - `BootstrapServers` (comma-separated list, e.g. `kafka:29092` or `localhost:9092`)
    - `GroupId` (consumer group id)
    - `AutoOffsetReset` (e.g. `Earliest` | `Latest`)
    - `Topics` with `CattleEvents` and `MilkingEvents`
- Message contract (recommended JSON shape)
  - Cattle created example:
  ```json
    {
      "EventType": "CattleCreated",
      "TimestampUtc": "2025-11-13T12:00:00Z",
      "Payload": {
        "Id": "019a5b08-9dcb-784d-8107-923f2907dde5",
        "TagNumber": "A123",
        "Breed": "Angus",
        "DateOfBirth": "2020-05-15"
      }
    }
   ```
  - Milking session example:
  ```json
    {
      "EventType": "MilkingSessionCreated",
      "TimestampUtc": "2025-11-13T12:05:00Z",
      "Payload": {
        "Id": "d3f9c8a1-... ",
        "CowId": "019a5b08-9dcb-784d-8107-923f2907dde5",
        "YieldInLiters": 12.5,
        "RecordedAt": "2025-11-13T08:00:00Z"
      }
    }
  ``` 

## Microservices Overview

### 1. CattleManagement.API

**Purpose:**  
Manages cattle data, including registration, tracking, and health records.

**Main Features:**
- **Entity Framework Core (SQL Server):** Robust data access and migrations.
- **OpenAPI Support:** API documentation and testing via Swagger UI.
- **Docker Support:** Ready for containerization and orchestration.
- **Scalar API Exposure:**  
  - Uses `Scalar.AspNetCore` to expose scalar endpoints for efficient, strongly-typed queries and commands.

### 2. MilkingYield.API

**Purpose:**
Manages milking yield data, including recording yields, analyzing trends, and generating reports.

**Main Features:**
- **Entity Framework Core (PostgreSQL):** Advanced data access and migrations.
- **OpenAPI Support:** API documentation and testing via Swagger UI.
- **Docker Support:** Ready for containerization and orchestration.
- **Scalar API Exposure:**  
  - Uses `Scalar.AspNetCore` for API documentation
- **Resilience Patterns:**
  - **Load Balancer:**  
    - Utilizes `Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience` to distribute HTTP requests across multiple service instances, improving scalability and fault tolerance.
  - **Circuit Breaker:**  
    - Implements circuit breaker policies via `Polly` and `Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience` to automatically detect and isolate failing service calls, preventing cascading failures and improving overall reliability.

## Key Technologies

- **.NET 9**
- **Entity Framework Core (SQL Server & PostgreSQL)**
- **Polly** (Resilience, Circuit Breaker)
- **Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience** (Load Balancing, Circuit Breaker)
- **Docker** (Linux containers)
- **OpenAPI/Scalar**

## Deployment

- Both services are configured for Linux containers and can be orchestrated using Docker Compose.
- Ready for cloud-native deployment and scaling.

---

Commit message:

Update README: Add "Takeaways" section, remove URLs
Added a "Takeaways" section to summarize the roles and backends
of the Cattle Management API and Milking Yield API. Removed
hardcoded URLs for the Milking Yield API and its load balancer
to improve clarity and avoid environment-specific details.
Retained existing API exposure details and documentation links.

README.md, after:

# OptiMilk Microservices Solution

This solution consists of two .NET 9 microservices designed for modern cattle management and milking yield analytics. 
Each service is container-ready and leverages resilient, scalable patterns for cloud deployment.
Each microservice has its own database context and exposes its API using Scalar for efficient, strongly-typed queries and commands.

## Get Started
To run the microservices locally, ensure you have Docker installed and execute the provided Docker Compose file. Each service will be accessible via its designated ports.

1. **Clone the repository.**
- ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/skeytor/OptiMilk
  ```
2. **Run Docker Compose:**
   ```bash
   docker-compose up --build
   ```
3. **Access the APIs:**
   - Cattle Management API: `http://localhost:8080/scalar/v1`
   - Milking Yield API: `http://localhost:5000/scalar/v1`
   - Load Balancer for Milking Yield API: `http://localhost/api/MilkingYield`

For further details, refer to each microservice's documentation and source code.

## Takeaways
- **Cattle Management API:** It's the producer and manages cattle data with SQL Server backend.
- **Milking Yield API:** It's the consumer and manages milking yield data with PostgreSQL backend, incorporating load balancing and circuit breaker patterns for resilience.

## API Exposure

Both microservices expose their APIs using Scalar, enabling efficient, strongly-typed queries and commands. This approach supports modern CQRS patterns and high-performance data access.

[Cattle Management API Docs](http://localhost:8080/scalar/v1#tag/cattle/get/api/Cattle)

[Milking Yield API Docs](http://localhost:5000/scalar/v1#tag/milkingyield/get/api/MilkingYield)

Furthemore we can access to the Milking Yield API through Load Balancer at: [Load Balancer URL](http://localhost/api/MilkingYield)


## Kafka Integration

OptiMilk uses Kafka for lightweight eventing and eventual consistency between services.

Core points
- Topic topology:
  - `CattleEvents` � cattle lifecycle events (created, updated, deleted).
  - `MilkingEvents` � (reserved) events related to milking sessions (name available in config).
- Service responsibilities:
  - `CattleManagement.API` publishes cattle lifecycle events using the Kafka producer integration (`AddKafkaProducer`).
  - `MilkingYield.API` subscribes to cattle events using the Kafka consumer integration (`AddKafkaConsumer`) and reacts (e.g., to synchronize caches or trigger downstream processing).
- Configuration:
  - The integration expects a `Kafka` configuration section with the following properties:
    - `BootstrapServers` (comma-separated list, e.g. `kafka:29092` or `localhost:9092`)
    - `GroupId` (consumer group id)
    - `AutoOffsetReset` (e.g. `Earliest` | `Latest`)
    - `Topics` with `CattleEvents` and `MilkingEvents`
- Message contract (recommended JSON shape)
  - Cattle created example:
  ```json
    {
      "EventType": "CattleCreated",
      "TimestampUtc": "2025-11-13T12:00:00Z",
      "Payload": {
        "Id": "019a5b08-9dcb-784d-8107-923f2907dde5",
        "TagNumber": "A123",
        "Breed": "Angus",
        "DateOfBirth": "2020-05-15"
      }
    }
   ```
  - Milking session example:
  ```json
    {
      "EventType": "MilkingSessionCreated",
      "TimestampUtc": "2025-11-13T12:05:00Z",
      "Payload": {
        "Id": "d3f9c8a1-... ",
        "CowId": "019a5b08-9dcb-784d-8107-923f2907dde5",
        "YieldInLiters": 12.5,
        "RecordedAt": "2025-11-13T08:00:00Z"
      }
    }
  ``` 

## Microservices Overview

### 1. CattleManagement.API

**Purpose:**  
Manages cattle data, including registration, tracking, and health records.

**Main Features:**
- **Entity Framework Core (SQL Server):** Robust data access and migrations.
- **OpenAPI Support:** API documentation and testing via Swagger UI.
- **Docker Support:** Ready for containerization and orchestration.
- **Scalar API Exposure:**  
  - Uses `Scalar.AspNetCore` to expose scalar endpoints for efficient, strongly-typed queries and commands.

### 2. MilkingYield.API

**Purpose:**
Manages milking yield data, including recording yields, analyzing trends, and generating reports.

**Main Features:**
- **Entity Framework Core (PostgreSQL):** Advanced data access and migrations.
- **OpenAPI Support:** API documentation and testing via Swagger UI.
- **Docker Support:** Ready for containerization and orchestration.
- **Scalar API Exposure:**  
  - Uses `Scalar.AspNetCore` for API documentation
- **Resilience Patterns:**
  - **Load Balancer:**  
    - Utilizes `Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience` to distribute HTTP requests across multiple service instances, improving scalability and fault tolerance.
  - **Circuit Breaker:**  
    - Implements circuit breaker policies via `Polly` and `Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience` to automatically detect and isolate failing service calls, preventing cascading failures and improving overall reliability.

## Key Technologies

- **.NET 9**
- **Entity Framework Core (SQL Server & PostgreSQL)**
- **Polly** (Resilience, Circuit Breaker)
- **Microsoft.Extensions.Http.Resilience** (Load Balancing, Circuit Breaker)
- **Docker** (Linux containers)
- **OpenAPI/Scalar**

## Deployment

- Both services are configured for Linux containers and can be orchestrated using Docker Compose.
- Ready for cloud-native deployment and scaling.

---
